CEP
  Today,i want to talk about “cyberattack”.In the past, many computer virus around world, it mades us more crisis awareness.
  For instance, the wanna cry impacts more than 300,000 computers across 150 countries.The most famous companies, named TSMC, they shut down several of its chip-fabrication factories in August 2018.
This crisis spread onto 10,000machines in TSMC’s most advanced facilities.
  Firstly,i want to talk about the wanna cry influence.
  For example, the wanna cry encrypted files on the victim’s computer such as documents, images, databases, rendering them inaccessible.
  Furthermore, multiple advanced process production lines including the critical 7nm process at the time were forced to shut down, it caused TSMC company NT$5.2 billion in operating losses, and impacting third quarter revenue by about 2%.
  Secondly, TSMC water fabs belong to the Operational Technology Network, tradionally isolated from the corporate information which impacts systems often ran older versions of Windows OS, where stability was prioritised, and updates were rarely performed, thus leaving known EnternalBlue vulnerabilities unpatched.
  At the time, cybersecurity awareness and measures for OT systems were not as rigorous as those for IT systems.
  Afterwards,TSMC manage their OT and IT,the networks hosting production equipment were completely physically isolated from office and administrative networks, cutting off direct attack paths from the external internet, they push towards Smart Manufacturing and Full Automation.
  In conclusion, the incident was a turning point for TSMC. By making significant investments in cybersecurity and infrastructure, the company transformed a crisis into an opportunity to build a more resilient and secure manufacturing environment, strengthening its position as a global leader.  

  Retrieved from :https://blogs.opentext.com/solving-the-semiconductor-supply-chain-traceability-crisis/
                  https://www.manufacturingdive.com/news/semiconductor-cybersecurity-tsmc-semi-consortium/753133/
